---
title:  "Journey with Linux"
subtitle: "$ sudo make me king"
author: "Aniket Pandey"
avatar: "img/authors/wferr.png"
image: "img/a.jpg"
date:   2017-03-15 12:12:12
---
<style>
    body{
        text-align: justify;
        font-family: 'Open Sans',serif;
    }
</style>
<link href="https://afeld.github.io/emoji-css/emoji.css" rel="stylesheet">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Open+Sans">

The ancient wisdom

Mark stumbled down the creeks, he desperately needed a shelter. He had been roaming in the woods for far too long to be safe. People from the nearby village had warned him about nasty creatures who lived in the woods and made appalling noises in the night. Although he was on high-alert for the whole time, he was too skeptical to believe mischevious noisy creatures lurking around in the woods. "Wolfs, probably", he mused.  

The clouds thundered. "Looks like its going to rain soon, I should find some safe place to retire for tonight". There were rotten trees all around, with the irksome sound of vampires hustling though the space above him. He gazed over the horizon. Through the distant moonlight, there seemed to be a distinct silhouette of what looked like a collosal cottage. Without giving a second thought, he rushed quickly towards it. As he got closer, the shape of the cottage started becoming more prominent. It looked more like an abandoned tower.

"What is this strange tower doing in the middle of nowhere, doesn't look inhabited at all", he thought out loud. His back of the ear was tingling, something about this tower didn't look right. As he stepped closer, there was a flash of light from inside the front aperture. He stiffened. Something was moving inside the tower. His hands reached inside his pocket, searching for his pocket knife in case the situation got out of hand. One reaching the front entrance, he inspected the doors. They seemed to have been opened recently and someone forgot to close the doors. Now, completely sure that something was going on inside the tower, he entered the house.

The tower was gloomy with a lot of old paintings lying around. There was also a prominent starircase in the distance. Spider webs hung from the ceiling as if they've flourished for a long time. At first thought, it occurred to him that probably it is a hideout of some village robbers or rogue bandits. But first he had to make sure that the tower was safe. As he didn't want to be harmed or killed in the sleep. He thought of exploring the distant part of the tower. Moving in, he heard a distant ruffle coming from in front of him. Followed by a deep rumble from beneath. At first he thought he might have heard the winds, but then the rumbling got lounder, as if the sound was being reverbrated from a large area. Intrigued, he followed the source of the sound. It seemed to be coming from the staircase. He moved quickly towards the stairs only to find that there wasn't any 

Interested, me and my close friend Ashish decided to give it a shot, for both of us wanted to do some real stuff in programming. But the problem occured when his laptop initially had some compatibility issues with Linux, apparently his Windows 7 armed HP laptop wasn't interested in sharing space with some other OS. Also we had no idea how to access and work with BIOS, disabling the Secure Boot feature , then there as a problem of getting a bootable USB.

Faced with multiple problems, we approached Vardhan but for some reasons, he was unable to sort out our problems. So with no other option, we decided to drop the idea of installing Ubuntu... Maybe some other time...

### Linux install fest
Fortunately for us, the Programming Club of our Institute was planning to organise a small fest for installing Linux in our laptops, probably for those of us who couldn't figure out a way to install it. They gave us the option of installing *Ubuntu LTS*, *Debian OS*, *Linux Mint* or *Arch Linux*. With the beginners being recommended to go with Ubuntu, as it would be easier to get accustomed to Linux that way.

I was already in contact with Saksham Sharma, one of the coordinators of PClub. According to his resume he already had experience with 4-5 Linux distros!! So I talked to him about various distros and which one I should prefer. He of-course recommended Ubuntu and also suggested me to go for multiple Linux distros once I'm familiar with various packages and utilities of Ubuntu.

### Problem with WiFi connectivity
I was not aware about this but apparently HP laptops had some ancient trouble with accepting Ubuntu dual-booting. Like seriously, after I successfully installed Ubuntu in my laptop started showing problem.

First, it showed some weird broken packages and I had no idea how to fix them, then all hells broke loose when it refused to connect to wifi. I asked a senior of mine and he asked me probably my wifi driver was inactive. So for that , he suggested me to install some packages related to **Broadcom Corporation BCM43142 802.11b/g/n**. Finally after two odd days , I was able to access wifi signals but even then, my laptop wasn,t able to create a wifi hotspot. I tried everything I could but it didn't work. Finally I gave up on that issue and I still struggle to get any hotspot through my laptop. :(

### When wonder starts to happen
What followed initial hiccup what an awesome experience I'd never forget. Today I feel much happier about my decision to install Linux, which surely changed my life. Now when I'm programming , I don't have to even touch my mousepad, I also don't have any headache of deciding which IDEs to download for which language. Its all in there.

And who doesn't love Terminal, No I'm not talking about the hacker feel that it gives you (surely that's a cool thing too), but everything is so much better once you get a feel of various commands. Wanna install an app? Cool, do it from the terminal. Wanna compile your code? You have the terminal. Wanna launch an IDE? Fire up terminal.

"Its been two months since I installed Linux. And I would admit, initial learning curve for Linux is pretty steep, but you need patience and need to keep using it, cause benefits its are indispensable and its fruits are sweet :) "

### Triple Booting!!!
After getting well accustomed to the environment of Linux and after many rounds of installing/uninstalling Ubuntu, I thought of going a step forward, installing another distro of linux alongside Ubuntu and Windows 10. However , I was reluctant to do so as the procedure seemed a bit nasty. And I was afraid if I mess up anything that could potentially destroy my laptop. But I had the guidance of my seniors, with their help, I finally installed *Linux Mint 18.1 'Serena'* as an alternative to Ubuntu.

Contrary to my belief of Mint overwriting the Ubuntu's Grub, it actually showed all three OS's at one place. So I didn't have to update the grub thankfully. Also , Mint does seem to be a better option than Ubuntu (personal opinion), as it has more customisable options. Background theme options are cooler than Ubuntu. And I'm actually writing this blog from Mint's text editor, which is also awesome.


So this more or less sums up my short adventure with Linux, I'll continue using Mint as of now and see if it is actually better than Ubuntu in a long run. :)
